README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">● Open Interpreter</h1>

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://discord.gg/YG7APUyJ5"><img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1146610656779440188?logo=discord&style=flat&logoColor=white"></a> <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=license&message=MIT&color=white&style=flat" alt="License">
<br>
    <b>Let language models run code on your computer.</b><br>
    An open-source, locally running implementation of OpenAI's Code Interpreter.
</p>

<br>

![poster](https://github.com/KillianLucas/open-interpreter/assets/63927363/08f0d493-956b-4d49-982e-67d4b20c4b56)

<br>

```shell
pip install open-interpreter
```

```shell
interpreter
```

<br>

**Open Interpreter** lets LLMs run code (Python, Javascript, Shell, and more) locally. You can chat with Open Interpreter through a ChatGPT-like interface in your terminal by running `$ interpreter` after installing.

This provides a natural-language interface to your computer's general-purpose capabilities:

- Create and edit photos, videos, PDFs, etc.
- Control a Chrome browser to perform research
- Plot, clean, and analyze large datasets
- ...etc.

**⚠️ Note: You'll be asked to approve code before it's run.**

<br>

## Demo

https://github.com/KillianLucas/open-interpreter/assets/63927363/37152071-680d-4423-9af3-64836a6f7b60

#### An interactive demo is also available on Google Colab:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1WKmRXZgsErej2xUriKzxrEAXdxMSgWbb?usp=sharing)

## Quick Start

```shell
pip install open-interpreter
```

### Terminal

After installation, simply run `interpreter`:

```shell
interpreter
```

### Python

```python
import interpreter

interpreter.chat("Plot APPL and META's normalized stock prices") # Executes a single command
interpreter.chat() # Starts an interactive chat
```

## Comparison to ChatGPT's Code Interpreter

OpenAI's release of [Code Interpreter](https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt-plugins#code-interpreter) with GPT-4 presents a fantastic opportunity to accomplish real-world tasks with ChatGPT.

However, OpenAI's service is hosted, closed-source, and heavily restricted:
- No internet access.
- [Limited set  of pre-installed packages](https://wfhbrian.com/mastering-chatgpts-code-interpreter-list-of-python-packages/).
- 100 MB maximum upload, 120.0 second runtime limit.
- State is cleared (along with any generated files or links) when the environment dies.

---

Open Interpreter overcomes these limitations by running on your local environment. It has full access to the internet, isn't restricted by time or file size, and can utilize any package or library.

This combines the power of GPT-4's Code Interpreter with the flexibility of your local development environment.

## Commands

#### Interactive Chat

To start an interactive chat in your terminal, either run `interpreter` from the command line:

```shell
interpreter
```

Or `interpreter.chat()` from a .py file:

```python
interpreter.chat()
```

#### Programmatic Chat

For more precise control, you can pass messages directly to `.chat(message)`:

```python
interpreter.chat("Add subtitles to all videos in /videos.")

# ... Streams output to your terminal, completes task ...

interpreter.chat("These look great but can you make the subtitles bigger?")

# ...
```

#### Start a New Chat

In Python, Open Interpreter remembers conversation history. If you want to start fresh, you can reset it:

```python
interpreter.reset()
```

#### Save and Restore Chats

`interpreter.chat()` returns a List of messages when return_messages=True, which can be used to resume a conversation with `interpreter.load(messages)`:

```python
messages = interpreter.chat("My name is Killian.", return_messages=True) # Save messages to 'messages'
interpreter.reset() # Reset interpreter ("Killian" will be forgotten)

interpreter.load(messages) # Resume chat from 'messages' ("Killian" will be remembered)
```

#### Customize System Message

You can inspect and configure Open Interpreter's system message to extend its functionality, modify permissions, or give it more context.

```python
interpreter.system_message += """
Run shell commands with -y so the user doesn't have to confirm them.
"""
print(interpreter.system_message)
```

#### Change the Model

You can run `interpreter` in local mode from the command line to use `Code Llama`:

```shell
interpreter --local
```

For `gpt-3.5-turbo`, use fast mode:

```shell
interpreter --fast
```

Or, in Python, set the model manually:

```python
interpreter.model = "gpt-3.5-turbo"
```

## Safety Notice

Since generated code is executed in your local environment, it can interact with your files and system settings, potentially leading to unexpected outcomes like data loss or security risks.

**⚠️ Open Interpreter will ask for user confirmation before executing code.**

You can run `interpreter -y` or set `interpreter.auto_run = True` to bypass this confirmation, in which case:

- Be cautious when requesting commands that modify files or system settings.
- Watch Open Interpreter like a self-driving car, and be prepared to end the process by closing your terminal.
- Consider running Open Interpreter in a restricted environment like Google Colab or Replit. These environments are more isolated, reducing the risks associated with executing arbitrary code.

## How Does it Work?

Open Interpreter equips a [function-calling language model](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/gpt/function-calling) with an `exec()` function, which accepts a `language` (like "python" or "javascript") and `code` to run.

We then stream the model's messages, code, and your system's outputs to the terminal as Markdown.

## Contributing

This is a community-made project. If it looks exciting to you, please don't hesitate to contribute!

## License

Open Interpreter is licensed under the MIT License. You are permitted to use, copy, modify, distribute, sublicense and sell copies of the software.

**Note**: This software is not affiliated with OpenAI.

<br>

> Having access to a junior programmer working at the speed of your fingertips ... can make new workflows effortless and efficient, as well as open the benefits of programming to new audiences.
>
> — _OpenAI's Code Interpreter Release_

<br>

_Looking for the desktop application? [Sign up for early access.](https://openinterpreter.com)_

Commit message:

Add unified dev agent with Ollama and memory integrations

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">● Open Interpreter</h1>

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://discord.gg/YG7APUyJ5"><img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/discord/1146610656779440188?logo=discord&style=flat&logoColor=white"></a> <img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=license&message=MIT&color=white&style=flat" alt="License">
<br>
    <b>Let language models run code on your computer.</b><br>
    An open-source, locally running implementation of OpenAI's Code Interpreter.
</p>

<br>

![poster](https://github.com/KillianLucas/open-interpreter/assets/63927363/08f0d493-956b-4d49-982e-67d4b20c4b56)

<br>

```shell
pip install open-interpreter
```

```shell
interpreter
```

<br>

**Open Interpreter** lets LLMs run code (Python, Javascript, Shell, and more) locally. You can chat with Open Interpreter through a ChatGPT-like interface in your terminal by running `$ interpreter` after installing.

This provides a natural-language interface to your computer's general-purpose capabilities:

- Create and edit photos, videos, PDFs, etc.
- Control a Chrome browser to perform research
- Plot, clean, and analyze large datasets
- ...etc.

**⚠️ Note: You'll be asked to approve code before it's run.**

<br>

## Demo

https://github.com/KillianLucas/open-interpreter/assets/63927363/37152071-680d-4423-9af3-64836a6f7b60

#### An interactive demo is also available on Google Colab:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1WKmRXZgsErej2xUriKzxrEAXdxMSgWbb?usp=sharing)

## Quick Start

```shell
pip install open-interpreter
```

### Unified Dev Agent (Ollama + AutoGen + Open Interpreter)

The repository now bundles a "Unified Dev Agent" that orchestrates DeepSeek-R1 running on [Ollama](https://ollama.ai/), Open Interpreter's execution engine, AutoGen's multi-agent coordination and persistent memory backed by [ChromaDB](https://docs.trychroma.com/).

```powershell
Write-Host "🚀 Instalando Unified Dev Framework..." -ForegroundColor Cyan
python -m venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\activate
pip install open-interpreter ollama pyautogen chromadb
setx OPENINTERPRETER_MODE "local"
setx OPENINTERPRETER_SANDBOX "false"
mkdir dev_framework
cd dev_framework
python -m unified-agent "Configurar ambiente de desenvolvimento completo"
```

Once the dependencies are installed and an [Ollama](https://ollama.ai/download) server is running locally you can start the experience with:

```shell
python -m unified-agent
```

Provide a natural language goal such as *"Crie uma API Flask com rotas /add, /list e /delete"* and the agent will plan with AutoGen, generate code using DeepSeek-R1, execute and validate the results via Open Interpreter, and record contextual knowledge in ChromaDB for subsequent iterations. Optional connectors for the [After-Effects MCP Vision toolkit](https://github.com/VolksRat71/after-effects-mcp-vision) and [Microsoft UFO](https://github.com/microsoft/UFO) enable awareness of creative assets and IDE workspace state.

### Terminal

After installation, simply run `interpreter`:

```shell
interpreter
```

### Python

```python
import interpreter

interpreter.chat("Plot APPL and META's normalized stock prices") # Executes a single command
interpreter.chat() # Starts an interactive chat
```

## Comparison to ChatGPT's Code Interpreter

OpenAI's release of [Code Interpreter](https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt-plugins#code-interpreter) with GPT-4 presents a fantastic opportunity to accomplish real-world tasks with ChatGPT.

However, OpenAI's service is hosted, closed-source, and heavily restricted:
- No internet access.
- [Limited set  of pre-installed packages](https://wfhbrian.com/mastering-chatgpts-code-interpreter-list-of-python-packages/).
- 100 MB maximum upload, 120.0 second runtime limit.
- State is cleared (along with any generated files or links) when the environment dies.

---

Open Interpreter overcomes these limitations by running on your local environment. It has full access to the internet, isn't restricted by time or file size, and can utilize any package or library.

This combines the power of GPT-4's Code Interpreter with the flexibility of your local development environment.

## Commands

#### Interactive Chat

To start an interactive chat in your terminal, either run `interpreter` from the command line:

```shell
interpreter
```

Or `interpreter.chat()` from a .py file:

```python
interpreter.chat()
```

#### Programmatic Chat

For more precise control, you can pass messages directly to `.chat(message)`:

```python
interpreter.chat("Add subtitles to all videos in /videos.")

# ... Streams output to your terminal, completes task ...

interpreter.chat("These look great but can you make the subtitles bigger?")

# ...
```

#### Start a New Chat

In Python, Open Interpreter remembers conversation history. If you want to start fresh, you can reset it:

```python
interpreter.reset()
```

#### Save and Restore Chats

`interpreter.chat()` returns a List of messages when return_messages=True, which can be used to resume a conversation with `interpreter.load(messages)`:

```python
messages = interpreter.chat("My name is Killian.", return_messages=True) # Save messages to 'messages'
interpreter.reset() # Reset interpreter ("Killian" will be forgotten)

interpreter.load(messages) # Resume chat from 'messages' ("Killian" will be remembered)
```

#### Customize System Message

You can inspect and configure Open Interpreter's system message to extend its functionality, modify permissions, or give it more context.

```python
interpreter.system_message += """
Run shell commands with -y so the user doesn't have to confirm them.
"""
print(interpreter.system_message)
```

#### Change the Model

You can run `interpreter` in local mode from the command line to use `Code Llama`:

```shell
interpreter --local
```

For `gpt-3.5-turbo`, use fast mode:

```shell
interpreter --fast
```

Or, in Python, set the model manually:

```python
interpreter.model = "gpt-3.5-turbo"
```

## Safety Notice

Since generated code is executed in your local environment, it can interact with your files and system settings, potentially leading to unexpected outcomes like data loss or security risks.

**⚠️ Open Interpreter will ask for user confirmation before executing code.**

You can run `interpreter -y` or set `interpreter.auto_run = True` to bypass this confirmation, in which case:

- Be cautious when requesting commands that modify files or system settings.
- Watch Open Interpreter like a self-driving car, and be prepared to end the process by closing your terminal.
- Consider running Open Interpreter in a restricted environment like Google Colab or Replit. These environments are more isolated, reducing the risks associated with executing arbitrary code.

## How Does it Work?

Open Interpreter equips a [function-calling language model](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/gpt/function-calling) with an `exec()` function, which accepts a `language` (like "python" or "javascript") and `code` to run.

We then stream the model's messages, code, and your system's outputs to the terminal as Markdown.

## Contributing

This is a community-made project. If it looks exciting to you, please don't hesitate to contribute!

## License

Open Interpreter is licensed under the MIT License. You are permitted to use, copy, modify, distribute, sublicense and sell copies of the software.

**Note**: This software is not affiliated with OpenAI.

<br>

> Having access to a junior programmer working at the speed of your fingertips ... can make new workflows effortless and efficient, as well as open the benefits of programming to new audiences.
>
> — _OpenAI's Code Interpreter Release_

<br>

_Looking for the desktop application? [Sign up for early access.](https://openinterpreter.com)_
